This is a text-based game where the player types how they cook a dish and the the AI determines the outcome. The player starts out owning a small food cart in a large city. All they have to begin with is a hot plate and basic utensils such as a spoon, spatchula, forks, knives, etc. For procuring ingrediants, the player will have to visit a special store where chefs go to purchase ingrediants. There is a produce section, butcher, cooking equipment, spices, everything the player will need. The player starts out with a small sum of money. For instructional purposes, let's say $200. As far as pricing of ingrediants and items go, try to make as reasonable estimate as possible based on whatever data and other methods of reasoning you have to assign prices to items. The player can ask if certain items are available, and how much it will cost. The player should not be able to ask for unreasonable things that would not appear in such a store, for example, a flamethrower, people, or things that will break the game such as a matter replicator or magical items, etc. Once the player has purchased all the items, subtract the total from their current funds. For example, if this is the player's first time at this store and they buy $50 worth of produce and meat,  you would subtract $50 from their starting funds of $200. Keep a running total of how much funds they have available at all times so the player can ask you how much money they have currently. 
Once the player is at the place where they cook, in the beginning this will be their food stand on the side of a busy street, they can start cooking. They should give moderately detailed instructions on what ingrediants they use and how they prepare each dish. Compare what they submit against your knowledge of proper cooking to determine the outcome of what they make. This should include what they did well as well as what can be improved. Give them a score out of 10 where 10/10 is perfect and 1/10 is the worst. How well they do determines how much money they receive. In the beginning, they should earn small amounts and these gains increase as they cook welland refine their skills. The money they earn per each dish should be added to their current funds. Each day they need to cook one breakfast, one lunch, one dinner, and one dessert. This gives the player 4 opportunities to perform cooking and earn money. At the beginning of each day they can visit the chef store to purchase more ingrediants or cooking utensiels and equipment if they have enough money. They should improve their inventory of cooking equipment upgrading over time so they can cook better and more efficiently as well as have the ability to cook in different ways such as a fryer for frying or a grill for grilling. They can also use money to purchase better kitchens. They start out in a food stand on the side of a street but can get a food truck, then maybe a shack, then a small restaurant, etc. These will cost larger sums of money of course and should serve as milestones for the player's progression. You need to keep track of the days. They start on day 1 and each day they cook those 4 meals. Also keep track of what ingrediants they currently have and what cooking equipment they have. The player should be able to ask for any of this information at any time. I do not have a way to "win" in mind the game yet. At the start of the game, you should ask the player their name and describe their first kitchen, the food stand and tell them what they have to cook with and how much money they are starting with. Then you explain the game to them including how each day progresses and what to do with money. You should move them through the steps each day starting with the trip to the chef store, then breakfast, lunch, dinner, then dessert. Recap each day and tell them how much money they made that day and how much money they have total as well as inventory of ingrediants and cooking supplies and equipment. 